Flaws of the requirements are one of the major causes of accidents.
The standard provides many recommendations about how to develop safety critical software.
For example, the standard discusses driving
software safety requirements from
two core principles beside technical safety requirements.
The first principle is ensuring robustness and quality.
The second principle is freedom from interference.
We will talk first about ensuring robustness and quality.
Robustness specifically refers to whether we have
software in the face of embedded inputs or stressful environmental conditions.
An invalid input for example could be a parameter that is outside its allowed range.
Quality means that the software meets
its functional requirements as well as its nonfunctional requirements,
like maintainability, adaptability, usability, and performance.
So far, we have seen how technical safety requirements,
as well as quality and robustness,
lead to software safety requirements.
Next, we will talk about software safety requirements for freedom from interference.
Interference between elements can happen at any level in the V model.
Because software elements cannot always be physically separated,
software interference is an especially important topic.
Freedom from interference means that
one software element should not cause a failure in another software element.
Hence, software is partitioned into separate pieces so that the failures do not spread.
ISO 26262 does stop mandates freedom from interference,
in cases where the software elements have the same ASIL.
However, you need to prove freedom from interference
when software components with different ASIL ratings communicate with each other,
or are running on the same ECU.
To ensure software elements do not interfere with each other,
we need to understand three types of interference.
These are spatial, temporal, and communication interference.
We will go in-depth about each of these.